yo what's up I've just been talking to
some vegans and regular human beings
here on you know who've actually been
asking me some really interesting and
meaningful questions spontaneously and
decided to turn on the camera to record
this one one question just got is
realistically you won't live forever and
things won't change in your lifetime so
that's why I asked where your motivation
comes from okay if I answer this is in
some ways simple in some ways childishly
simple but you know it's deep and it
matters I'm someone who has a robust
background in philosophy European
philosophy Buddhist philosophy but
philosophy working from books I've read
Aristotle and I've read through cities
I've read the ancient Greeks I've read
the 19th century Germans I do have a
very robust background in philosophy and
one of the problems with people who have
that kind of academic background and you
maybe think about politics and
philosophy in a sophisticated way is
that you can lose sight of some of the
simplest and most fundamental factors
exactly and answering this kind of
question you know what doing good does
not have an end goal trying to be a good
person trying to do the best you can it
actually doesn't rest on outcomes doing
the right thing for the right reasons
like being vegan as an individual making
the decision I'm gonna carry this weight
I'm going to deal with this burden day
after day after day even though I
probably can't save the life of a single
animal even though within my lifetime
I'm not going to see the slaughterhouses
close down even though I'm probably
never going to see the kind of cultural
change I might fantasize about about
other people gaining this sensitivity
the sense of responsibility and
resolving to do the right thing for the
right reasons um doing the best you can
it's something we teach children and
that we tend to forget as adults and you
may forget it in a miasma of politically
and philosophically sophisticated
concepts or you may forget it
amidst the cynicism and stress of your
work life and your responsibilities as
an adult but that really is what it
comes down to what is it that motivates
me to try my best to try to be a good
person to try to make a positive change
in the world when in a sense you can't
in terms of the the outcomes the victims
is hoping for in a sense when the the
end goal you know that there is no
utopian project here for me why you know
why do the best you can you get into a
cycle doing the best I can is part of
who I am and who I am is doing the best
I can my morality isn't separate from
who I am as a person on the contrary you
make those decisions and the decisions
become you and you become the product of
your decisions and over time I'm not
going to front there are negative
aspects as that as well as positive
aspects i had an anecdote i've told
before but when i was in germany and i
had to buy medicine I was sick I was
seriously ill and the medicine I should
have taken had honey as an ingredient as
a minor ingredient there was honey added
for flavoring and spontaneously in the
moment without thinking about it I just
reacted as if this person asked me to
slit the throat of a cow you know what I
mean it butch what do you what do you
think I am I can't take I can't possibly
take this medicine now as everyone knows
in terms of the definition of veganism
you're supposed to do what's reasonable
and practicable and medicine is it's a
standard exception if the only medicine
you can take if there's no alternative
at the pharmacy has honey in it you
should take that medicine you should
wasn't rational it wasn't a decision I
made it was part of who I was it was a
instinctive reaction at that point right
and 10 minutes later I walked out of the
shop I was reflecting on a thinking man
I got to get this under control
just you know who you are and what
you're trying to do is a cycle there and
it can be an upward cycle and it can be
a downward cycle and I think it's kind
of both you know um I I think this is
one of things I liked about Buddhism I'm
not a Buddhist now but I'm an expert as
they used to be a member of the Buddhist
religion one of the things I liked about
Buddhism was that it fundamentally was
built on a tragical view of morality
right like if you ask the question in
Buddhism does Buddhism support the death
penalty or not it's not a question of
support in Buddhism the death penalty is
seen as completely inevitable in the
pali canon and the real buddhist
philosophy the real Buddhist canon they
say as long as there were kings there
are people are going to be tortured to
death tortured and executed that was
completely normal in ancient India and
medieval India and that was how they
regarded the cycle of suffering in this
world if you have Kings you have
tortured you have execution period there
was no sense that in the future people
could build a utopia or a better society
without slavery slavery was bad what's
what is this position on slavery it's
bad but they regarded as totally
inevitable and their response to that I
mean Buddhism this is a kind of
dangerous distraction was to say okay
the world is bad the world is always
going to be bad withdraw from it
transcend it be something better be a
Buddhist monk and that is the exact
opposite of the conclusion I came to I
think the world can improve the world
can change in the world can get worse to
don't withdraw don't avoid it don't
transcend it confront it engage with it
plunge deeper into it and I'd say that
whether we're talking about Cambodia or
talking about Laos orthogonal Canada you
know whether we're talking about issues
as hopeless and depressing as drug
addicts
or the meat and dairy industry or you
know some of the civil wars and
international wars that have gone up for
decades and decades and seem to have no
horizon have no hope in sight um I'm a
nihilist I'm a pragmatist I'm a realist
for me as one powerless individual it's
true as Kim a stand her question you
know there's only so much you can do and
maybe in a sense in terms of outcomes
maybe there's nothing you can do but you
can still do the best that you can you
can still become the best person that
you can outcomes matter of said that on
this channel many times how many cows
get their throat slit it matters the
ecological impacts matter the animals
getting killed matters outcomes matter
but at the end of the day the product
were debating and disputing here on
YouTube right now as Marcus Aurelius
said the question is whether we are to
be sane or insane the product is not a
box on the shelf the product is you the
reason why I get on here every day and
ask you to make different choices as a
consumer different choices as an
activist is because I want you to change
who you are who you become the product
may be in some abstract sense eventually
a better society a society in which
people take more responsibility for the
outcomes of their actions a society
cares more about ecology ethics animal
rights etc maybe maybe 50 years to now
maybe a hundred years from now maybe in
that sense we can win but here are now
today and tomorrow and tomorrow for all
the tomorrow's to come product is you